THEORY EXERCISE
Question 1: What is React.js? How is it different from other JavaScript frameworks and libraries?

React.js is an open-source JavaScript library developed by Facebook for building user interfaces, primarily for single-page applications. It allows developers to create reusable UI components, manage state, and render dynamic content efficiently.

Differences from other frameworks and libraries:

Library, not a full framework: Unlike Angular or Vue, React is a library focused solely on the view layer (UI). Developers must use additional libraries (like Redux or React Router) for state management and routing.
Virtual DOM: React uses a virtual DOM for efficient updates, whereas traditional libraries interact directly with the real DOM, which can be slower.
Declarative syntax: React allows developers to describe what the UI should look like rather than defining all the imperative steps to build it.
Unidirectional data flow: React follows a one-way data binding approach, making state management more predictable compared to frameworks like Angular (which supports two-way data binding).
JSX: React combines HTML and JavaScript logic into a single syntax (JSX), making it different from most other frameworks.
Question 2: Explain the core principles of React such as the virtual DOM and component-based architecture.
Virtual DOM:
React uses a lightweight, in-memory representation of the actual DOM called the virtual DOM.
Changes are first made to the virtual DOM, and React compares the updated virtual DOM with the previous one using a process called "reconciliation."
It calculates the minimal changes needed and updates the real DOM efficiently, improving performance.
Component-Based Architecture:
Applications in React are built using small, reusable pieces of UI called components.
Each component can manage its own state and lifecycle, and components can be nested to build complex user interfaces.
This modularity makes the code easier to read, test, and maintain.
Question 3: What are the advantages of using React.js in web development?
Performance:
The virtual DOM optimizes rendering, making React apps faster.
Reusable Components:
Component-based design promotes reusability, reducing development time and effort.
Declarative Syntax:
React’s declarative nature simplifies UI updates and improves code readability.
Large Ecosystem:
With numerous libraries, tools, and a strong community, React offers solutions for almost any development need.
Cross-Platform Development:
React Native extends React to mobile app development, enabling code reuse between web and mobile.
SEO-Friendly:
Server-side rendering (SSR) capabilities improve the SEO performance of React applications.
Strong Community Support:
Backed by Facebook and a vast community, developers have access to extensive resources and support.
LAB EXERCISE
Task: Set up a new React.js project and create a basic component

Steps:

Set up a new React.js project:
Open your terminal or command prompt.
Run the following command to create a new React project using create-react-app:
bash
Copy code
npx create-react-app my-react-app
cd my-react-app

Start the development server:
bash
Copy code
npm start

Create a basic component:
Navigate to the src folder and create a new file, e.g., HelloReact.js:
jsx
Copy code
// HelloReact.js
import React from 'react';

const HelloReact = () => {
  return <h1>Hello, React!</h1>;
};

export default HelloReact;

Use the component in App.js:
jsx
Copy code
import React from 'react';
import HelloReact from './HelloReact';

const App = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <HelloReact />
    </div>
  );
};

export default App;

Run the app:
After saving all files, the app should display "Hello, React!" in your browser.


